---
# citation: "23 May 1896, Richmond County Advance, West New Brighton NY, p4, nyshistoricnewspapers.org."
pubdate:  "1896-05-23"
author: 
title: 
voltitle:  "Richmond County Advance"
publocation:  "West New Brighton  NY"
pages:  "4"
source:  "nyshistoricnewspapers.org"
media:  ""
quaddress:  ""
media: "Emphasis added."
notes: >-

    - From [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org//wiki/Edict_of_Nantes): "The Edict of Nantes (French: édit de Nantes) was signed in April 1598 by King Henry IV and granted the Calvinist Protestants of France, also known as Huguenots, substantial rights in the nation, which was predominantly Catholic. In the edict, Henry aimed primarily to promote civil unity. The edict separated civil from religious unity, treated some Protestants for the first time as more than mere schismatics and heretics and opened a path for secularism and tolerance. In offering a general freedom of conscience to individuals, the edict offered many specific concessions to the Protestants, such as amnesty and the reinstatement of their civil rights, including the right to work in any field, even for the state, and to bring grievances directly to the king. It marked the end of the French Wars of Religion, which had afflicted France during the second half of the 16th century. ... In October 1685, Louis XIV, the grandson of Henry IV, renounced the Edict and declared Protestantism illegal with the Edict of Fontainebleau. This act, commonly called the 'revocation of the Edict of Nantes,' had very damaging results for France. While the wars of religion did not re-ignite, intense persecution of Protestants took place. All Protestant ministers were given two weeks to leave the country unless they converted to Catholicism and all other Protestants were prohibited from leaving the country. In spite of the prohibition, the renewed persecution – including many examples of torture – caused as many as 400,000 to flee France at risk of their lives. Most moved to Great Britain, Prussia, the Dutch Republic, Switzerland, South Africa and the new French colonies and the Thirteen Colonies in North America." 
---
Answered His Last Roll-Call.

George Mersereau died at his residence in New street, Port Richmond, on the 7th of March, after a severe illness of several weeks, in the 61st year of his age. Funeral services were held on the 10th of March in St. Mary's R. C. Church, Port Richmond. Reverend Joseph C. Campbell and his assistants officiating in a solemn mass of requiem and the interment was in St. Peter's Cemetery. The bearers were Horatio Judah, Benjamin J. Bodine, Frank McWilliams, William H. Perry, Bernard Mulin, and Thomas McBurney.

An elegant pillow in choice white flowers, with the words "Our Father" upon it, in purple immortelles, and several other handsome floral tributes upon the casket and elsewhere, testified to the regard of friends. The music rendered by the organist and choir was of a superb order. The large church was nearly filled with citizens and their families who came to testify their regard for the memory of a man whom everybody had respected.

Mr. Mersereau came of an ancient French family which left France in consequence of the troubles there in 1685 immediately after the Revocation of the edict of Nantes. They intended to settle in England, but James II, having just ascended the throne, and elements of disturbance being abroad because of his religious views, they continued their way to this country. They had intended to settle in Philadelphia, but were driven to New York by stress of weather. They settled on Staten Island, in the Town of Northfield, where their descendants are found to this day. Judge Paul Mersereau who died in 1856 and who was Member of Assembly from this county in 1834, and for several years subsequently a Judge of the Court of Common Pleas, was the grandfather of Mr. Mersereau. **His father, David Mersereau, with his brother Paul, for a considerable number of years kept a grocery store at West Brighton, and were the predecessors of C. M. Pine. Mr. Mersereau served as clerk with Mr. Pine for six years previous to 1860 and afterward carried on the grocery business for three or four years at Tompkinsville.** He also spent two years seeking his fortune in California.

On the breaking out of the War of the Rebellion he enlisted in Company I. Capt. O. D. Jewett, 156th Regiment, New York Volunteers, and continued to serve in that connection until discharged from the service at the close of the war. His regiment served in the Department of the Gulf under General Banks and General Canby, and also in the Shenandoah Valley campaign under General Sheridan, and participated in all the occurrences of that remarkable period in our history. The regiment was then sent to garrison Savannah, and remained there and at Athens until the close of the War. It was with General Sherman when Johnston surrendered.

Mr. Mersereau was at the battles of Winchester, Cedar Creek, and Fisher's Hill in Virginia, and at the capture of Port Hudson, and performed excellent service. He was sometimes detailed for special duty requiring peculiar qualifications, and at all such times manifested superior ability in successfully accomplishing the work entrusted to his care and won the warm encomiums of those who were in command. He attained the rank of Sergeant. A gentleman of intelligence and high character, who was in touch with Mr. Mersereau during the entire war, and who has known him intimately in all the relations of life, said: "He was a good soldier, faithful and true under all circumstances, fulfilling cheerfully and ably every requirement, and in whatever situation he was placed the army, or elsewhere, always acquitted himself in a manner worthy of praise."

During the last twenty-five years Mr. Mersereau was engaged with his brother in the manufacture of doors, sashes, blinds, and other articles pertaining to the erection of houses, in their manufactory at Port Richmond. The trade grew into a large and prosperous business, because of the diligence shown by the partners, and the esteem in which they were held by all who dealt with them.

Mr. Mersereau had no inclination for public life, but by general desire he served for some years as a trustee of the Village of Port Richmond, in which position he was a most economical and wise administrator of its affairs, and materially contributed toward sustaining the good name which the village authorities then held before the people. In his private life, his conduct was unexceptionable, and he was always intent upon doing something for the blessing of those who were less fortunate than himself. He was exceedingly tender and considerate in his ways, and sought to prevent others from having trouble, even when it was to be taken to make him more comfortable. His last words were evidence of the truth of this statement when he urged his devoted wife "to lie down and take a rest" saying at the same time, "I will turn over and take a nap." As he thus endeavored to get her to secure the needed rest, on the ground that he did not further require her attention, because he would go to sleep, he turned his face, closed his eyes, and died. It is a beautiful thought that his last act on earth was marked by thoughtfulness of the comfort of another. 

Mr. Mersereau was a member of Richmond Post, No. 524, of the Grand Army of the Republic, and the Flag of the Union was displayed at half-mast over the hall at Port Richmond on the occasion of his death. No flag ever gave its folds to the breeze in memory of a braver man, a better citizen, or a more earnest patriot than the man in whose honor it waved.

The deceased left a widow, one son, and a daughter, who have the warm sympathy of the community in which they dwell.

