---
# citation: "18 Dec 1886, The Buffalo Commercial, Buffalo NY, p2, newspapers.com."
pubdate:  "1886-12-18"
author: 
title: 
voltitle:  "The Buffalo Commercial"
publocation:  "Buffalo  NY"
pages:  "2"
source:  "newspapers.com"
---
THE DEATH OF JAMES D. WARREN. 

After five weeks of suspense—weeks in which hope has alternated with fear, confidence has been frequently stimulated to give place to anxiety, and the suggestion of probability has been strengthened only to yield to the reality of despair, the members of the COMMERCIAL staff gathered at the house of affliction waiting to hear it, bur dreading to hear it, were told in few words that "all is over Mr. WARREN has passed away.” 

It is not in this hour of deep affliction, not at this time when the blow of bereavement has fallen, that those most deeply afflicted can realize the extent of their loss, or can find words to let others know what the loss has been. Others today are telling what this community has lost by the death of Mr. WARREN: others are recounting his service to this public, to this party, to the cause of honorable journalism, and in the ranks of the upright, manly citizenship. Through these columns those who have been associated with JAMES D. WARREN for many years testify only of his steadfastness, his unselfishness, his sincerity as a friend. We all know that Mr. WARREN never attempted, never desired to impress those with whom he was most closely identified in business relations with his importance or his influence as an employer; to be regarded as their friend, as their associate, their adviser and their guide, was his ambition. Not a man connected with this establishment, not one identified with this newspaper, could today recall one unkind word, one harsh word, and certainly not one unjust word, that JAMES D. WARREN has ever spoken to him. The relations of employer and employed, of chief and of subordinate, have been cemented in mutual esteem, sustained with mutual friendship, and consecrated to mutual assistance, encouragement and success.

To all this death, with stunning force, has put an end. The name of JAMES D. WARREN is taken from the list of the living to be recorded in the annals of eternity as one of those who loved his fellow-men. Those of us who have felt the warmth of that love find words but a feeble medium for the expression of our loss today. And the bitter pang of bereavement is intensified by the thought which oppresses every man in the COMMERCIAL's staff today, that time will not bring mitigation with it, but rather that it will force upon us a realization of the fact that JAMES D. WARREN, while not a man who gave his heart without caution or without test, did grapple to his soul the friends whose adoption he had tried, and never allowed disloyalty, or selfishness, or injustice on his part to sully that friendship. Every man in the COMMERCIAL office today feels and knows that he has lost a tried friend, a true friend, a noble friend, when those fatal words were heard last night–”It is all over.” 

JAMES D. WARREN DEAD.

Buffalo Express, (Editorial).

At half-past eight last evening JAMES D. WARREN died. For some weeks there have been fears that the illness from which he suffered intensely would prove fatal; but lately his physicians were led to believe that the disease had taken a more favorable turn, and expectation of his full recovery were hopefully entertained. Only yesterday morning friends learned that he had pass a very comfortable night. During the day it was deemed necessary and safe to perform upon him a painful operation, and the most favorable result was confidently anticipated. But the effort was too much for his depleted vitality; he did not rally from the consequent exhaustion, but passed away unconscious even of the great relief caused by the dreaded operation. 

From the very first attack he had expected, almost hoped for, death. He knew that his disease was mortal; his venerated father died of it, after enduring untold agony at intervals for several years; and when the son learned of his fatal inheritance, he seemed to wish for speedy ending of it rather to live in such suffering as he had witnessed at his beloved parent’s bedside. This was the most unfavorable aspect of his illness. It was the natural impatience of bodily ills which marks the strong and healthy man. 

For even when past three-score MR. WARREN was a walking picture of robust health, a model of manly comeliness and strength. Few men of years could compare with him in those respects, and none of his age looked younger. He was made on a large scale, and up to the last two months looked good for another score years or more. There is something inexpressably sad in the thought of this strong man cut down so quickly in what seemed to be the very pride of his strength and the utmost height of his usefulness.

Elsewhere the *Express* prints such particulars of his life as could be hastily gathered in the few hours left after the sad news came to us before these columns must be closed for the day. Here it is not intended to do more than to speak briefly of Mr. WARREN’S marked characteristics, as they struck one who was more closely associated with him for fifteen years. The memory of those fifteen years of intimate friendship and perfect confidence is stronger and even fresher now, and will be more enduring, than the recollection of anything that has unpleasantly occurred between them in the nine years since.

MR. WARREN was eminently a man of business, with all of an upright business-man’s keen regard for his commercial reputation. His financial credit was always higher than that of many men of double his wealth. It was his first concern. In business affairs he was prudent and discreet, and successful of course. He made few losses, and knew how to keep what he had gained. Those who think of him first as a politician, as so many will, mistake his leading trait. He was first of all, a man of business. Circumstances, not of his own choosing, made him a political leader, and for the last five years hardly any Republican in the State of New York wielded a greater influence than he easily exerted in shaping the party’s actions in it nominating conventions both local and national. 

Yet, but ten years ago, it was difficult to persuade Mr. WARREN to remain on the state committee, and he had absolutely no political ambition. He cared nothing for political power or honor. Yet, within the last two or three years, he was a candidate for the highest honors and greatest leadership his party in this state could bestow. Such wonderful changes will a few years work in men and things! And yet he was peculiarly a man of common sense. Political ambition, if it was in him ever, was a plant of late growth and an exotic at that. If he sought office it was because other men sorely wanted him to have it.

Many friends who think they knew Mr. WARREN pretty well will find it hard to believe all this of him. But it is the truth. He labored more zealously to promote other men’s ambitions than his own. Left to his own devices he would lately have lived a life of ease, in the enjoyment of the wealth which he had acquired in honorable business pursuits. He was fond of home and simple surroundings. He was justly proud of his ownership of the BUFFALO COMMERCIAL ADVERTISER, and the fine printing business and splendid building with which that time-honoured title is identified. But he had no false pride of any kind. He felt himself the equal of most men, but was never lofty with the lowly. In his domestic relations his life was beyond reproach. He was devoted to wife and children and generous with those of his blood not so near or dear.

JAMES D. WARREN.

Buffalo Courier, (Editorial.)

Although Buffalo was at the bedside of JAMES D. WARREN, for many weeks, sympathizing deeply with his sufferings and keenly aware of the dangerous nature of his illness, yet Buffalo was not prepared for the shock caused last evening by the announcement of his death. This community can scarcely realize that he has gone. Throughout the many long days of his suffering the public sentiment in many ways showed how earnest and fervent was the hope of the city that he would survive the desperate struggle, and of late the feeling of confidence in his recovery had grown strong and stronger from day to day. But it was not to be; and hope has been buried beneath a universal sorrow.

Long prominent and influential in the public and business affairs of Buffalo, Mr. WARREN was closely identified with the growth and prosperity of the city. That he contributed much to that growth and prosperity is well known. His notably successful newspaper establishment is conspicuous and convincing proof of that fact. And the entire city mourns his loss.

Genial, approachable, companionable, frank and straightforward in speech, he was ever surrounded by a host of warm personal friends. “True to his friends.” How often and how constantly was that said of Mr. WARREN! And never was a high compliment more richly merited. Here at his home and everywhere throughout the state how deeply do these personal friends mourn his loss. 

Long active and influential in the councils of his party, no man in Wester New York was for many years so often sought for advice by party friends, and his power in local, state and national politics was recognized by all. He was a sturdy partisan, and this quality gained for him admirers among his political opponents. They had high regard for him as a man who always had the courage of his political convictions, and among those who bow in deepest sorrow over his bier are those who in many political contests have known his remarkably successful political management. They mourn the loss of an honorable opponent. 

With the family of MR. WARREN and with those long intimately associated with him in his life’s work, the *Courier* has heart-felt sympathy in their great grief.

Syracuse Standard.

JAMES D. WARREN’S death follows weeks of serious illness, the fatal result of which had been anticipated by members of his family. Throughout New York State Mr. WARREN was widely known, and public interest in the news from his bedside has been marked. As a resident of the city of Buffalo, Mr. WARREN held a position of enviable prominence among his townsmen. For many years he was ranked with the leading journalists of the state, and he stood at the head of a prosperous and influential newspaper. He was the recognized leader of the republicans in two at least of the congressional districts of Western New York. He was recognized by this party as a leader of tact, skill and courage. In Syracuse the number of Mr. WARREN’S personal friends was large. They esteemed him highly and will learn of his death with much regret.

Rochester Democrat.

Journalism and politics in the state of New York have both suffered a severe loss in the death of JAMES D. WARREN, principal proprietor and responsible editor of the BUFFALO COMMERCIAL ADVERTISER. Mr. WARREN had been upon a sick bed for several weeks, and great solicitude had been expressed concerning the issue. Recent information had, however, been of an encouraging character and earnest hopes of his recovery had been entertained by his friends. But this was not to be, the strong man had gone to his death, at the summit of his reputation and at the meridian of his usefulness, leaving many to mourn his departure.

For the past nine years, the COMMERCIAL has substantially been JAMES D. WARREN, reflecting his views and enunciating his policies, and it has justly been regarded as one of the most influential republican journals in the state, clear in its utterances and fearless in its cause. It has been edited with marked ability, and has expressed the mind of its owner. Its help has been sought eagerly, and its criticisms have been feared. It has been unswerving in its fealty to republican principles and much of party integrity and triumph in Western New York has been due to its counsel.

Until MR. WARREN assumed control of the COMMERCIAL he had not achieved a state reputation as a politician, although locally he was known as one of the most sagacious of party managers. His new position, however, at once gave him state prominence. He soon became a member of the Republican state committee and, in due time, its chairman. In this capacity, he became one of the most efficient organizers the state has known. Although favoring the nomination of General Arthur for the presidency in 1884, he was, as chairman of the committee, loyal to the chosen standard-bearer, and did splendid service in behalf of Mr. Blaine. It was certainly not his fault that the gallant republican leader was defeated, by a meagre majority. Rapidly advancing in the confidence of the party, MR. WARREN has, more than once, been prominently mentioned in connection with the United States senatorship, and, in 1885, he was a prominent candidate for governor, before the republican state convention. High political honors were certainly in store for him, had his life been spared.

An analysis of the quality of JAMES D. WARREN reveals him a man of commanding influence—a leader of men—of signal sagacity and prudence and unswerving attachment to causes he espoused and men he favored. No man in the state wielded larger influence in his local political community than he. Among the republicans of Erie county his will was law, for years; but he was never known to abuse his power or to forfeit the trust reposed in him. In the factional disturbances of the party in this state Mr. WARREN was pronounced in his position, but he never thereby lost the respect even of those who felt constrained to differ with him, and the *Democrat and Chronicle*, rarely in accord with him during the troublous period indicated, takes pleasure in testifying to this. He was a frank opponent, as well as a staunch friend. He enjoyed the friendship of President Arthur and many eminent public men. In his bearing he was urbane. As a citizen he was public-spirited, and in the domestic circle, exceedingly beloved. Fortune smiled upon him, and he was liberal in his charities. It was his pleasure to help others, and many are the men occupying places of trust and honor who own them to his kindly offices. Few men in the state will be more sadly missed than JAMES D. WARREN.

Utica Herald. 

JAMES D. WARREN, proprietor of the BUFFALO COMMERCIAL ADVERTISER, died at this home in that city last evening. He had been in failing health for some time, and, although there were occasional indications that he might recover, the end had seemed for several months not far distant. MR. WARREN will be very kindly remembered by people in the journalistic profession as a man who established an influential newspaper by hard work and sturdy business integrity. In the political arena he had been a staunch republican, when an expression of his opinions meant something, and the party will generously treasure his memory.

Buffalo Times.

Mr. WARREN has always been an earnest and active republican, never turning aside from his party of from that he considered fidelity to its principles. Although he has never been an office-holder other than we have stated his counsels have always been listed to and of late years he had been one of the most striking figures in the party both in state and national affairs. He has served repeatedly as a member of the state committee and as chairman thereof, has been delegate to bothy state and national nominating conventions. He was recognized as the leader of the straight-out or “stalwart” element in his party and had no patience with those who yielded up party allegiance to personal preference. He was a great and close observer, a thorough student of human nature and a very finished manipulator of men. So passes away a man who only a few short weeks ago was up and down our streets, the embodiment of health, strength, and manly vigor. The *Times* unites with the whole people and with the press in offering condolences and sincere sympathy to the afflicted family in this, the hour of their deep bereavement.

