---
# citation: "23 Dec 1886, Buffalo Weekly Express, Buffalo NY, p4, newspapers.com."
pubdate:  "1886-12-23"
author: 
title: 
voltitle:  "Buffalo Weekly Express"
publocation:  "Buffalo  NY"
pages:  "4"
source:  "newspapers.com"
media:  ""
quaddress:  ""
---
JAMES D. WARREN DEAD.

AT half-past eight last Thursday evening James D. Warren died. For some weeks there have been fears that the illness from which he suffered intensely would prove fatal; but lately his physicians were led to believe that the disease had taken a more favorable turn, and expectations of his recovery were hopefully entertained. Only Thursday morning friends learned the he had passed a very comfortable night. During the day it was deemed necessary and safe to perform upon him a painful operation and the most favorable result was confidently anticipated. But the effort was too much for his depleted vitality; he did not rally from the consequent exhaustion, but passed away unconscious even of the great relief caused by the dreaded operation.

From the very first attack he had expected, almost hoped for, death. He knew that his disease was mortal; his venerated father died of it, after enduring untold agony at intervals several years; and when the son learned of his fatal inheritance, he seemed to wish for a speedy ending of it rather to live in such suffering as he had witnessed at his beloved parent's bedside. This was the most unfavorable aspect of his illness. It was the natural impatience of bodily ills which marks the strong and healthy man. 

For even when past three-score Mr. Warren was a walking picture of robust health, a model of manly comeliness and strength. Few men of his years could compare with him in those respects, and none of his age looked younger. He was made on a large scale, and up to the last two months looked good for another score years or more. There is something inexpressably sad in the thought of a strong man cut down so quickly in what seemed to be the very pride of his strength and the utmost height of his usefulness.

Elsewhere THE EXPRESS prints the particulars of his life. Here it is not intended to do more than to speak briefly of Mr. Warren's marked characteristics, as they struck one who was closely associated with him for fifteen years. The memory of those fifteen years of intimate friendship and perfect confidence is stronger and even fresher no, and will be more enduring, than the recollection of anything that has unpleasantly occurred between them in the nine years since.

Mr. Warren was eminently a man of business, with all of an upright business-man's keen regard for his commercial reputations. His financial credit was always higher than that of many men of double his wealth. It was his first concern. In business affairs he was prudent and discreet, and successful of course. He made few losses, and knew how to keep what he had gained. Those who think of him first as a politician, as so many will, mistake his leading trait. He was first of all a man of business. Circumstances not of his own choosing, made him a political leader, and for the last five years, hardly any Republican in the State of New-York wielded a greater influence than he easily exerted in shaping the party's action in its nominating conventions both local and national.

Yet, but ten years ago, it was difficult to persuade Mr. Warren to remain on the State Committee, and he had absolutely no political ambition. He cared nothing for political power or honor. Yet, within the last two or three years, he was a candidate for the highest honors and greatest leadership his party in this State could bestow. Such wonderful changes will a few years work in men and things! And yet he was peculiarly a man of common sense. Political ambition, if it was in him ever, was a plant of late growth and an exotic at that. If he sought office it was because other men sorely wanted him to have it.

Many friends who think they knew Mr. Warren pretty well will find it hard to believe all this of him. But it is the truth. He labored more zealously to promote other men's ambitions than h i sown. Left to his own devices he would lately have lived a life of ease, in the enjoyment of the wealth which he had acquired in honorable business pursuits. He was fond of home and simple surrounding. He was justly proud of his ownership of the *Buffalo Commercial Advertiser,* and the fine printing business and splendid building with which the time-honored title is identified. But he had no false pride of any kind. He felt himself the equal of most men, but was never lofty with the lowly. In his domestic relations his life was beyond reproach. He was devoted to wife and children and generous with those of his blood not so near or dear.

It has been thought of Mr. Warren and not altogether without reason, that he was fond of money. This brief sketch of his character may well be closed with a statement which proves that honor was dearer to him than money. Together with the present writer, as joint proprietor of the *Commercial,* the firm was once sued for libel with damages laid at a hundred thousand dollars. The evening before the case was to come of for trial, after many delays, the partner who had the greater moral responsibility for the trouble was informed by the plaintiff's distinguished counsel that if the *Commercial* would publish only a few lines, to the effect that upon documentary evidence submitted to its editor its proprietors had become convinced that the publication complained of was incorrect and unjust, the suit would be withdrawn. No apology was asked for. Upon the spur of the moment, without opportunity for consulting with Mr. Warren, the editor rejected the proposition. Evidence sufficient to convince him that, the plaintiff had been wronged could convince the jury, he said, and if the *Commercial* had done the plaintiff such a plain wrong as that, its proprietors ought to suffer for it and they were willing to pay the damages. Next morning, an hour or two before the case was called, Mr. Warren was informed of what his partner had done. "What would *you* have said?" asked the editor. "Just what you said!" answered Mr. Warren instantly. "But suppose they get a verdict, what then?" "Why then, by –, we’ll pay it!” said Mr. Warren, with an oath which had in it no flavor of impiety. 

That was the spirit of a proud, brave man, and the story is told here and now with a sort of sad pleasure in the reminiscence. Mr. Warren surely did not love money too well in that case. He was loyal and steadfast in the hour of trial. And perhaps some of his many friends will be glad to be told, or reminded that the libel suit was tried most ably on both sides, and that the verdict was “For the Defendants.” 

