---
# citation: "21 Dec 1886, Buffalo Morning Express, Buffalo NY, p5, newspapers.com."
pubdate:  "1886-12-21"
author: 
title: 
voltitle:  "Buffalo Morning Express"
publocation:  "Buffalo  NY"
pages:  "5"
source:  "newspapers.com"
---

Laid in the Tomb. 

MANY PROMINENT MEN PAY THEIR LAST  RESPECTS TO THE DECEASED PUBLISHER—RESOLUTIONS BY THE COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS BY THE COUNCIL.

The Funeral of James D, Warren. 

The funeral of James D, Warren took place from his late home, No. 222 North Street, at 2:30 o'clock yesterday afternoon, The attendance in every way was a large and very representative one, It seemed as though every townsman of note had come to pay his last respects to the memory of Mr. Warren, and the number of distinguished friends from out of town was also large, a partial list of whom is given below. 

The remains rested in a solid cedar casket, covered with fine black broadcloth. The concave top, around which extended a silken cord with tassels at each side, bore a few simple but beautiful flowers, roses and lilies of the valley, forming a pillar and a wreath, the gifts of a few friends and of the employees of the *Commercial*. The casket was lined with richly trimmed plaited satin, and had oxydized silver extension bar and end handles. The following was the inscription borne on a solid silver plate: 

James D. Warren.

Born January 19, 1823. 

Died December 17, 1836, 

A polished cedar box, with neat silver handles and a copper plate bearing an inscription, enclosed the casket. In the east parlor, in which the remains thus enclosed had been placed, were gathered distinguished men from all parts of the State and from Washington. Among them, besides a number of prominent citizens of Buffalo, were: 

United-States-Senator Warner Miller, Mr. C. W. Hackett of Utica, Chairman of the Republican State Executive Committee; Mr. John A. Sleicher, editor of the *Albany Journal*; Mr. John M. Davy of Rochester; ex-Congressman James S. Smart of Washington County; Mr. Henry S. Abell, formerly private secretary to Gov. Cornell; ex-Collector Pierce of Canandaigua; Collector O. W. Cutler of Lockport; Mr. Willard A. Cobb, editor of the *Lockport Journal*; ex-Congressman Richard Crowley of New-York; Congressman John B, Weber; ex-Assemblyman Amos H. Baker; Mr. Charles E, Fitehy editor of the *Roche ester Democrat and Chronicle*; Judge A. S. Draper, State Superintendent of Public Instruction; Mr. H. H. Warner of Rochester; Assemblyman Peter A. Porter of Niagara Falls; the Hon. Carroll Whitaker; State-Senator T. E. Ellsworth of Lockport. 

The family occupied a place in the upper hall, in the front part of which was a large delegation from the Press Club. The Republican League and the Cleveland Democracy were also represented by delegations. In the lower front parlor to the west were gathered many of Mr. Warren’s old friends and acquaintances, including some of the most prominent citizens of Buffalo. Seated in a room just in the rear of the hall were Mayor Becker and a delegation of officials of the city and county, and the employees of the *Commercial*. In the east parlor up stairs were the *Commercial* staff, and in the west parlor the following bearers: Mr. James A. Roberts, Mr. George Urban, Jr., Col. John Byrne, Judge George A. Lewis, the Hon, Jacob Stern, Mr. Henry C. French, Mr. William E. Clark, and Mr. William B, Sirrett; and the honorary bearers: The Hon. Charles Daniels; Gen. R. L. Howard, the Hon. Nelson K. Hopkins, the Hon. James M. Humphrey, Mr. John L. Williams, Mr. Henry W. Box, the Hon. Solomon Scheu, Mr. Robert Keating. 

**THE REV. DR. SMITH’S ADDRESS.** 

The officiating clergyman was the Rev, Dr. T. Ralston Smith, pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church, who read the service of his church as a preface to his remarks, There was no music. He spoke as follows: 

The holy offices of the Church speak to our hearts the words that we most need to hear. The utterances of man are as nothing in the presence of God's voice of pity and love. It is a still, small voice, but it can be heard by the listening soul amidst the wildest raging of the tempest: “Be silent, and know that I am God.” We do know it in the manifestations of His power. Shall we not also know in the sweet experience of the Fatherly help and consolation? 

When such a man as James D. Warren is suddenly removed from a large sphere of activity and influence, it is difficult to avoid referring, even in a service which is meant for the comfort of a sorrowing home, to the place he has filled and the work he has done. I am specially restricted, however, by the sacred wishes of his family, to the fewest possible and the simplest words. His eulogy has already been written. His life has been open to the inspection of a generation. The impress of his work is too deep to be lost or forgotten soon. The solemnities of this hour are rather for the heart of affection, which looks at things commonly secluded from the observation of the world, and worth more to the memory of the loving, than all the victories and distinctions of public life. It is the husband and father who is mourned and wept for, even more than the man who formed opinion and disciplined others for work and made his mark on the history of the times. 

Yet even in the brief word allowed me may I say with no purpose of mere eulogy that our departed friend was a man who has filled, and filled well, a position of honorable elevation, of weighty cares and large responsibilities. He entered public life at a comparatively early age and has been devoted to its interests ever since. From such a life conflicts are inseparable. But he bore his part in them manfully, so that even those who were in form his antagonists, but at heart his friends, are foremost in paying respectful and affectionate tributes to his memory and to the marked achievements of his busy career. That he found satisfaction in his chosen calling there can be no question. But it is doubtless true that honor and the care that comes with it, were finally pressed upon him beyond the point of his desire; and, we have sad reason for fearing now, beyond the power of even his splendid physique to endure. But where he served, he served diligently and well. A man of few words and those few words plain, quiet, and forcible—a man of pronounced executive ability—a man adapted to lead, and to inspire where he led, he has been a marked figure not only in the city which he loved but in the State and even the nation. His loss in the public sphere will be felt, has been felt most deeply, already. Those who were with him and those who differed with him, vie in their testimonials of respect and honor. 

Possibly, however, Mr. Warren’s ambition was gratified even more by his success as a newspaper man and as the conductor of a business which has been identified for years with his name not only, his actual and efficient personality. If he had chosen his monument, I think he would have chosen this. His mind, his force, his enthusiasm, his love, were incorporated in it. He thus became the architect of an edifice whose materials and proportions clearly manifest to us what he was. It is no wonder if he felt an honest pride in his achievement. But it was a pride which endear men to those who share their toil. One of the beautiful things which cast a mellow light upon this hour of sorrow is the voluntary testimony of those in his employ, that they can recall no harsh, or overbearing, or unjust word in all the course of their relations with him. It is sweet to think that despite all the temptations of public life, those who knew Mr. Warren best think of him to-day chiefly as the tried, the true, and the trustworthy friend.

But there is something to be said that rises higher even than the encomiums of those who knew him in this outer life. We are in danger of supposing that men of broad public relations have little time, possibly little inclination, for the endearments and quiet enjoyments of home. But this certainly was not true of our lamented friend. He was a devoted husband and father. He magnified the domestic life. He was loved in his home as the true man should be and will be loved. Happy in these relations and blessed by Providence with the means of making his home attractive and beautiful, I cannot doubt that he returned to its sweet retirement, from every other scene, however fascinating, with the keenest relish for the love and sympathy which always awaited him here. If in business he occupied a high place, if in public affairs he wielded wide influence, if in friendship he was liberal and helpful, the highest throne he occupied was the throne built in the loving hearts that most deeply mourn for him to-day.

It is only a few short weeks since he took by the hand a distinguished citizen to whose fortunes he had steadfastly been allied and bade him a last and tender farewell. He left him with the words ringing in his ears, “Mr. Warren, I love you!” In a little while that friend passed beyond the reach and need of earthly honor. Who could have supposed that the strong man who stood by that feeble form would follow in the same journey so soon? And this involves even a more sorrowful and tearful leave-taking. Wife and child, brothers and sisters, forgetting the outer life, think this moment only of the dear inmate of the home, of the man on whom they leaned, whose heart they knew, whose higher qualities were reserved for their enjoyment, whose place as husband and father and brother must forever remain unfilled.

There is an element of mystery in the bereavement before us. We can only bow the head in solemn and waiting reverence. Why this friend in the very prime of life, in the fullness of his powers, and at the time when he never seemed to be more needed in the household circle, should suddenly be smitten down, is a question which we can leave only to the sovereign wisdom of our Heavenly Father. If our own children cannot search our thoughts, how can we search God’s? Yet we expect our children to be docile and submissive, to have faith in us, to be assured of our love. Shall we have less trust in the infinite wisdom and the infinite goodness?” I know the weakness of human hearts, especially in crushing sorrow. I know the temptations to doubt and mourning. I know how the question arises “Why, why, must this be so?” And it is a question which we cannot answer. But we can stretch forth our hands to God and humbly say, “Is is best because Thou doest it. We cannot understand the way by which Thou dost lead us, but it is Thy way, and Thou art love.” The lesson of resignation is a hard lesson to learn, but it is a sweet one. We have to rise up to great heights of confidence before we can say, “The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord.” But his own hand can lift us to those heights, and His own grace can put these patient and trustful words upon our lips and in our hearts. 

These sorrowing ones to-day can find a wondrously large infusion of sweetness in the bitter elements of the cup they drink. They can remember the beauty of the home life with its unbroken confidences. They can remember how earthly honors and duties never eclipsed the light of domestic love. They can recall heroic patience in suffering, thoughtfulness for others, even during paroxysms of pain, the gentle ministries of affection which they were permitted to exercise and the death at last like sleep to a tired child. Evermore can they think of the promised sympathy of Him who is so sweetly described as the Judge of the widow and the Father of the fatherless; of the sympathizing Jesus, who, as we are reminded by the season, coming into our nature through the lowliness and helplessness of childhood, partook of sorrow beyond measure of our humanity, and knows there is no night so dark but the light of Christ can brighten it into day. There is no sorrow so deep but that divine comfort can turn it into peace and joy. There are no tears that the hand of heavenly love cannot wipe away.

May God’s peace come into these sorrow-stricken bosoms. May the arm of Jesus be felt in its strong embrace of these forms stunned and staggering beneath the force of this weighty blow.

The family of the deceased, the staff of the *Commercial*, Senator Miller, and other distinguished friends of Mr. Warren from out of town followed the remains to Forest Lawn, where the body was placed in the receiving vault to await interment. The exercises at the cemetery were very brief, simple, and impressive. 

Where the body will finally be interred has not been decided, though it is likely to be at Clarence, Mr. Warren's old home, and the resting place of the mortal remains of his father. 

**Action of City Hall Officials.** 

A meeting of the officials and others employed at the City and County Hall was held yesterday morning at 11 o'clock to take action on the death of Mr. James D. Warren. There were present Mayor Becker, Judges Tites and L. L. Lewis, Surrogate Stern, District-Attorney Hatch, Superintendent-of-Schools Assessors Murphy and Mock, Street-Commissioner Martin, Auditor Smith, Comptroller Barnard, Deputy-Comptroller Albro, Supt. Knapp of the Water Department, Healthy-Physician Briggs, Ald. White, dl Roesch, McMaster, and Kennedy, Keeper Moest of the Almshouse, Keeper Stickney of the Penitentiary, County-Treasurer Esser, City-Treasurer Carmichael, Sheriff Gilbert, Coroners Henry and Durney, Gen. Rogers, County-Clerk Orr, Water Commissioners Ryan and Reichert, City-Clerk Delaney, Police-Commissioners Crissy and Newell, Corporation-Counsel Worthington, City-Attorney Laughlin, Chairman Smither of the Board of Supervisors and others. 

Mayor Becker, in assuming the chair, said he had known Mr. Warren for 40 years, and had entertained a warm friendship for him. On motion he appointed as a committee to draft a suitable memorial, Messrs, Laughlin, Crooker, Lewis, Titus, and Esser, The memorial was read by Mr. Laughlin and was unanimously adopted as follows : 

We, the officials and others employed at the City and County Hall, were extremely grieved on learning of the death of our esteemed fellow-citizen, James D. Warren, and, moved by a common impulse and appreciation of a great loss thus sustained, have come together to express our sorrow and pay our humble tribute of respect to the distinguished dead.

By his breadth and intellect, his liberal views, his indefatigable enterprise, and his untiring devotion to the welfare of our city for upwards of 30 years he contributed largely to its growth and prosperity.

By his truthfulness, honesty, integrity, and superior business ability and tact he was remarkably successful, winning the confidence and esteem of all, and was justly regarded as the soul of commercial honor. By his high moral standard, combined with rare talent, he did inestimable good in elevating the character and tone of the press and by furnishing our people with a pure and able journal.

Endowed with an affable manner, a generous heart, and an affection for his friends, by the aid of his almost perfect knowledge of human nature, coupled with a superior judgement and strong political conviction, he became a leader in his party and was long prominent in its councils throughout the State and Nation.

His noble character and upright life, which were crowned with deserved success, have met the approval of a multitude of his bereaved fellow-countrymen and are worthy the emulation of all. 

*Resolved*, That this testimonial be furnished the press and an engrossed copy be transmitted to the grief-stricken family, and that we attend the funeral.

Judge Lewis paid a warm tribute to the memory of the departed. He said he had known him intimately ever since Mr. Warren came to the city in 1854. He entertained a very warm regard for him, and considered his death a great personal loss. Mr. Warren was always true to his work. He always unselfishly placed the interests of others before his own in political preferment, and those who had political intercourse with him knew they could place implicit confidence in whatever he said, and knew just what position he took. Candor, frankness, and open-heartedness were traits that made him a model among men. 

District-Attorney Hatch spoke as follows:

In the course of nature such scenes as we are now witnessing must often occur. We may speculate much or little over the cause of death. We may assign reason why life should have been prolonged in a given case. We may question the skill of physicians. We may rebel and doubt even the justice of God; but to all of us comes the dread messenger, and neither speculation, skill, nor rebellion, suffices to drive him away.

I stand to-day by the open grave of my friend, and am consoled only by the knowledge, common to all, that he died as a man should die, with honors thick upon him, taking with him the love of friends, conscious of his own rectitude, commanding the respect of his enemies. This is no ordinary man we bury this day. Living, he was our first citizen. There more more men who knew him and paid homage to his unostentatious greatness than to any other in our city, and I can truthfully add in our State. It has been truthfully said that Mr. Warren was a leader of man. He was also a leader of measures. In all my intercourse with him I found him to be one of the best listeners I ever knew, ready at all times to receive suggestions, to hear all one had to say, and I think if the suggestion was good his ready comprehension accepted it, but he reserved to himself the right of final judgement. And this I found to be true, great or small. When once he had reach a conclusion, it was usually acceptable. He had no dogmatic assertion about him, nor offensive manner, nor much gift of language to enforce his views, nevertheless no one failed of understanding his position and of knowing his reason for it. He was no half-way man. While there were a hundred and one things and persons that he never troubled himself about, although others persistently said he did, yet when he did interest himself all could know of it, and also where he stood and what interest he was for. So strong was he as a leader of measures and of men in this State, that had his desire, if he had one, been made known from his sick bed, it would have had an undoubted influence on shaping the destiny of the State in the Senate of the United States. Could this power come to one save he were made upon a broad gauge—a great man? The princely property he left behind, earned by himself, is its own testimonial to his capacity as a business man. 

But there was a tenderer relation which he occupied than what has been said would seem to imply. He gathered his friends about him, and no act or word of his ever did aught but contribute to their happiness. I think he was at all times ready to meet the highest or the lowest. No power of wealth or station ever awed him, no arrogance ever obtruded itself upon his lowliest friend. He had a gracious temper. Who ever saw his equipoise disturbed? I doubt if his friends ever saw him disturbed to what is called a loss of temper; he often felt wronged, and so expressed himself, but as for getting mad as commonly accepted, he was as far from it as a howling blast is from balmy summer air.

There was one power possessed by our dead friend with which we rarely meet. I wish I could tell it better than I shall. Between himself and his two sons there existed a confidence and affection which is rarely met with. It was a case of mutual confidence always maintained. The roots of affection usually reach downward from the parent to the child. Warm, constant companionship producing affections spreads its roots in all directions, including the heart. That such was the relation between Mr. Warren and his sons no one who knew them could help observing. He made his companionship acceptable in the highest and best sense to them; one never ashamed that his act should be known to the other. To my mind this is the highest and best possible relation which can exist to-day. The sons mourn the loss not only of an illustrious father, but of an illustrious friend and companion.

I can pay no higher tribute to James D. Warren. I loved him as a friend. We did not misunderstand each other. I shall always recollect that this day from the face of men to [unclear] the remains of a noble man.

Judge Titus said he had not known Mr. Warren as intimately as some of those present, but from the first day of their acquaintance he had learned to admire the fine qualities of the man. Mr. I. O. Crissy also eloquently eulogized the worth and character of the deceased leader. 

The meeting adjourned at noon to attend the funeral.

**Action of the Common Council.**

Directly after roll call in Common Council yesterday the following preamble and resolution of respect relative to the death of James D. Warren were introduced by Ald. Rano and unanimously adopted:

*Whereas*, In the death of James D. Warren the members of the Common Council of the City of Buffalo recognize the loss of a citizen to whom the city is greatly indebted for its rapid growth and its increasing prosperity. Watchful of its interests and quick to detect what would make for its advancement, his advice was as helpful as it was unselfish. He belonged to no ward; He spoke for no class. His active, sympathetic and liberal views made him pre-eminently a constituent of each member of this body. During a long and eventful business life, made more conspicuous by his connection with the press, it is difficult to recall a word written or spoken which did not breathe a loyalty to the city of his adoption, born of a desire to make it a city of wealth and progress, of happy homes, of contented people, and of good government inexpensively and honestly administered.

*Resolved*, That this expression of our estimate of his services and character be spread upon the minutes, and an engrossed copy presented to the family of the deceased.

**Action of the Veteran Legion.**

The Union Veteran Legion met last evening and appointed Messrs. A. W. Bishop, Anselm J. Smith, and John S. Robertson a committee to draft a memorial on the death of James D. Warren, which they did as follows:

The Union Veteran Legion of Erie County, of which he was an honorary member, have experienced, like this community at large, a great loss in the death of James D. Warren. A self-made man whose struggles in early life were typical of a prominent trait in American civilization, he gradually advanced to the front in financial success; and in political life, while singularly free from personal ambition, he nevertheless impressed his individual power with unusual force upon party action and party methods. Always clear and direct in the preservation of what he believed to be correct, and the proper thing to be done in any emergency, whatever that emergency might be, his loss will be most keenly felt by his old associates, who must now wear the mantle the he so adorned and so dignified. 

The Republican party, not only locally but throughout the State, has lost one of its strongest pillars—a man as prompt in action as wise in council, and one whose judgment, had it been deferred to on one specially memorable occasion, would have saved the party from a national defeat. As the world goes his life was a most decided success, and younger men can look back upon it with encouragement not only, but realizing that in it there is for them a stimulus for their own advancement and their own prosperity. Lives are valuable in the lessons they teach, and the legacy that Mr. Warren has left in this regard cannot fail of creating a profound impression, in this city especially, where he was so well known and so highly respected.

With their fellow citizens the members of this Legion unite in a common sorrow, and they extend to the bereaved family their most profound and heartfelt sympathy.

