---
# citation: "24 Dec 1886, The Sun And The Erie County Independent, Hamburg NY, p4, newspapers.com."
pubdate:  "1886-12-24"
author: 
title: 
voltitle:  "The Sun And The Erie County Independent"
publocation:  "Hamburg  NY"
pages:  "4"
source:  "newspapers.com"
---

DEATH OF JAS D. WARREN.

Death is ever a most unwelcome visitor, whether it be to the infant, budding youth with buoyant hopes, to early manhood, or those of maturer years, and the loss at all times brings unmeasured grief, and we wonder at the strange providences which tears our loved away. To the public the loss is more varied and according to public and private merits and more in keeping with the sterling qualities of a noble manhood. Such an one was James D. Warren, son of a country merchant of Clarence. Reared in the pursuits of business, he acquired habits which led him forward not only to distinction and wealth, but to the ownership and management of one of the leading newspapers tn the State and country. The editor of the *Express*, James N. Matthews, his former partner, says of him: 

“Mr. Warren was eminently a man of business, with all of an upright business man’s keen regard for his commercial reputation. His financial credit was always higher than that many men of double his wealth. It was his first concern. In business affairs he was prudent and discreet, and successful of course, He made few losses, and knew how to keep what he gained, Those who think of him first as a politician, as so many will, mistake his leading trait. He was first of all a man of business. Circumstances, not of his own choosing, made him a political leader and for the last five years hardly any Republican in the State of New York wielded a greater influence than he easily exerted in shaping the party's action in its nominating conventions, both local and national.

“Yet, but ten years ago, it was difficult to persuade Mr. Warren to remain on the State Committee, and be had absolutely no political ambition. He cared nothing for political power or honor. Yet, within the last two or three years, he was a candidate for the highest honors and greatest leadership his party in this State could bestow. Such wonderful changes will a few years work in men and things! And yet he was peculiarly a man of commons sense. Political ambition, if it was in him ever, was a plant of late growth and an exotic at that, If he sought office it was because other men sorely wanted him to have it.

“Many friends who think they knew Mr. Warren pretty well will find it hard to believe all this of him. But it is the truth. He labored more zealously to promote other men’s ambitions than his own. Left to his own devices he would lately have lived a life of ease, in the enjoyment of the wealth which he had acquired in honorable business pursuits. He was fond of home and simple surroundings. He was justly proud of his ownership of the Buffalo Commercial Advertiser, and of the fine printing business and splendid building with which that time-honored title is identified. But he had no false pride of any kind. He felt himself the equal of most men, but was never lofty with the lowly. In his domestic relations his life was beyond reproach. He was devoted to wife and children and generous with those of his blood not so near and dear.” 

What a noble tribute to the memory of a deceased friend; and as Mr. Matthews and Mr. Warren were partners for years, none other can speak from greater personal knowledge. Mr. Warren was a man of commanding presence, and one of nature's noblemen. He had a heart as tender and sympathetic as a child. Let a friend go and say, “My friend needs your assistance,” and if the cause was just Mr. Warren felt the full force and he would make the cause many times more than he would have ever asked for himself under any circumstances which he might have been placed. As a friend he was the most devoted, and if anyone was worthy of his friendship they received its fullest measure, As Mr. Matthews says, "circumstances not of his own choosing made him a political leader,” and truly so; his wonderful discreetness, good judgment and prudence in business made his voice equally potent in politics, and when this was manifested as a member of the State Committee and in his party councils, this of its own force made him a political leader. He would undoubtedly have been nominated for Governor in ’85 but for the fact that the wing of the party to which he belonged had the minority of votes in the convention. His name was also freely canvassed in connection with United States Senator. At his death he must have been worth a half million dollars. His sons were so thoroughly educated into the management of his large newspaper business that it Would appear that all he had to do was to retire and enjoy the results of a successful life's efforts. Mr. Warren was not aged, but barely past 60 years, while he appeared but little more than 50. The announcement of his death caused a profound sensation in all circles, and as he had been the friend of all in life, so his death is not only a matter of public and private regret, but causes the loss of a most honored citizen not alone to Buffalo but to the State. 

