---
# citation: "05 Nov 1853, Brooklyn Daily Eagle, Brooklyn NY, p2, q12, newspapers.com."
pubdate:  "1853-11-05"
author: 
title: 
voltitle:  "Brooklyn Daily Eagle"
publocation:  "Brooklyn NY"
pages:  "2"
quaddress:  "12"
source:  "newspapers.com"
media:  ""
---
LAYING OF THE CORNER STONE OF THE CENTRAL PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.

The ceremony of laying the corner stone of the Central Presbyterian Church, corner of Nevins and Schermerhorn streets, was performed yesterday afternoon. A large number of persons were present, three-fourths of whom were ladies. The congregation have hitherto worshipped in the Willoughby street church; but finding it inadequate to their growing necessities, the present edifice has been undertaken. Its dimensions are 62 by 89 feet, and it is calculated to accomodate [sic] about 1,500 persons. It fronts on Schermerhorn street. The front will be ornamented with a portico and heavy wooden cornice. The Rev. J. Edson Rockwel1 is pastor of the congregation. The building is being constructed under the superintendence of Mr. Grimsteep as architect, and Messrs. Mitchell & Campbell are the builders; and Robert White, carpenter. It will be of brick, and is expected to cost between $30,000 and $40,000. 

The proceedings were opened by Rev. Mr. Wells of Williamsburgh, who offered the following prayer: 

“Oh God, we rejoice that we have access to the throne of Grace by the Mediator between God and man, and we rejoice that we are permitted to meet on this occasion for the purpose that has now convened us. We implore thy presence and thy blessing, for unless the Lord build the temple, they labor in vain who build it. We thank thee for all the encouragement thou Last given us hitherto, and pray that thou wilt give us favor among men, and that we may be made strong by thee. Grant, Lord, this undertaking may prosper until the topmost stone shall be laid amid the rejoicings of thy people. Lord help those that are to speak to us, and at last may we be gathered from the various sanctuaries in which we worship God to the upper sanctuary, where thou dwellest for ever! We ask it for Christ's sake, Amen. 

Rev. Mr. Rockwell then came forward and said, “We are gathered together, my friends, to commence a work which you see has been already actually commenced; to lay the corner stone of a house of God, where we trust, in years to come, God will be worshipped, and where his people may meet together for the enjoyment of his precious ordinances, and where his truth will be proclaimed in purity, sincerity and truth. He then read a list of the articles to be deposited beneath the corner stone, and which were enclosed in a tin box, as follows: 

The Book of Psalms of the Presbyterian Church of the United States, together with their form of Church government, and Catechism; a manuscript history of the Central Presbyterian Church; a list also in manuscript of the members of the Church, together with the heads of families that now compose the congregation; a list of the Presbyterian churches and Ministers of this city; the Twelfth Annual Report of the Brooklyn Bible Society, written by the Pastor,  Mr. Rockwe1l; copies of the religious and secular newspapers of the day, &c. The Rev. Dr. Potts, of New York, then addressed those present as follows: 

My dear Friends—The suggestions appropriate to such an occasion, are so numerous, and will so readily present themselves to your mind that it seems almost superfluous in me to add anything to what you would yourselves feel as the important and interesting features of such an occasion. 

It is one of the most important of all the structures that can be erected in society—the corner stone of which we are about to lay. It is well for people to live in ceiled houses, and, as the growth of society progresses, additions to comfort and ornament in the residences of the people; and in proportion as the houses occupied by the people are ornamented and beautiful, should the house of God be decorated and adorned. But though it is well thus to attend to the exterior, yet the inward and spiritual must be accounted far superior in importance; and this ceremonial of laying the corner stone is of importance only as it symbolical and emblematic of that great stone of which Jesus is the glory, and beneath which are those truths which lie at the foundation of society here and in the world to come, and on which are erected superstructures that will endure for ever. We have the consolation of knowing that that structure is to be consecrated, not to pride and vanity, or ostentation, but to the worship and glory of God and the salvation of men. We are about to erect on this spot a church where, we trust, a pure sacrifice will always be offered. And you may feel sure that the glory of this house will excel the glory of many temples in which the worship of God is carried on unknowingly and ignorantly, without the simplicity of Christ and his Gospel. If we rely upon the mere appliances of outward ornament and the glory of architecture for the up-building of Christ’s temple, we shall feel and deserve to feel disgraced. But I have no fear, so long as a pure offering in the name of the great mediator is offered up within its walls. 

The corner-stone was then laid with the usual ceremonies; a prayer being offered up by Rev. Mr. Greenleaf in which he invoked the Divine blessing on the undertaking, and prayed that the lives of the workmen might be preserved. An address was then delivered by Rev. Mr. VanDyke, Of the First Presbyterian Church of this city, in which he exhorted them to contribute towards the erection of the building. He said he did not know that he was exactly in his element, for he was there to beg. When he first entered the ministry he was ashamed to beg. He thought then that the only duty, the only business of a clergyman should be to preach. Experience, however, taught him better, and he could tell them now he was not ashamed to beg in any good cause; and what better cause could be beg for than for the head-spring of all blessings? He believed that the Gospel and Religion alone could save mankind; and however people who considered themselves enlightened might think they could do good by going after the quack advices of worldlings and politicians, he would assure them that it was the Gospel alone could save them. When the Israelites were called on to build a temple they were ordered to strip themselves of their rings and jewels to adorn it. He did not ask his auditory for their jewels, but just whatever loose change they could spare. He repeated the fable of Esop, where all the beasts of the field and birds of the air had collected around a spring in a dry season to drink, but could get no water on account of the depth of the spring. The fox told each one present to throw in a small stone which would cause the water to ascend so that they could easily reach it. He exhorted his hearers to throw in a stone each in the shape of a dollar or five dollar piece, and he hoped some of them would throw in a pocket full of rocks. 

A collection was then taken up, and the assembly dispersed. 


