---
citation: "Mills Genealogy. Prepared by Samuel Wickham Mills. Minisink Valley Historical Society, Port Jervis NY, p2. Used with permission."
---
2

stood No. 33 on the roll of the First Church in Boston, where two of his daughters (Joy and Remembrance) were baptized in Oct. 1630. He was made freeman in Boston, March 6, 1632. He resided there ten years and then removed to Braintree, Mass. where in 1653 he was Clerk of Braintree. In his will made June 1670 he expresses the wish that his son John, to whom he gave his estate ‘would bring up one of his sons to the ministry,’ as this had been the calling of his predecessors to the third if not to the fourth generation. There was one Richard Mills who was called the Pioneer Schoolmaster of New York, who lived on Long Island and in Connecticut; Samuel Mills who lived in Dedham Mass., and Samuel Mills who lived at Windsor, Conn., all of whom came from England at a very early date but the precise year is not known. How they were related and who were their descendants we have not learned. 

George Mills was probably the ancestor of the Long Island Mills’s. He came from Yorkshire, England and was born about 1605 and died at Jamaica, L.I. OCT. 17, 1694, aged 89 years. His name is found on the Town records of Hempstead and Jamaica in Feb. 16, 1656 and Nov. 25, 1656 when he was granted a home lot in each Town? Some have supposed this George Mills was a brother of John who came over with Gov. Winthrop, but no proof of the fact has yet been found. Samuel, a son of George, was born in this country in 1631, and died at Jamaica in March 1726, aged 95. A notice of his death appeared in the New York Gazette of March 12, 1726, in which it was stated that he was able to do a good days work a few days before he died.
