---
citation: "Mills Genealogy. Prepared by Samuel Wickham Mills. Minisink Valley Historical Society, Port Jervis NY, p4. Used with permission."
---
4

Pond and to have settled at New Windsor which was then in Ulster County. His deed recorded in Ulster County Deeds (F.F. 465) dated May 20, 1754, states that he is of the precinct of Wallkill, in the County of Ulster. He bought for 370 pounds a tract of land of 571 acres from the Garret Schuyler and Hans Ulrick Bindor heirs who lived in New York. His will was recorded in New York in 1780 in which he mentions his sons John, Jonathan, and Daniel, and his daughters Joannah and Anah, and also his wife Margaret. No trace has been found of the descendants of this Timothy Mills. Jacob Mills who subsequently settled in New Windsor, was a nephew of the Timothy Mills just mentioned. His father was Jonathan Mills of Mills Pond by Ruth Rudyard his first wife. Jacob and his twin brother were born Dec. 22, 1746. Timothy married a Miss Miller and settled in Saratoga County, N.Y. His grandson Thomas H. lived at Ballston N.Y. in 1880. The Mills's on Long Island were of English descent and it would seem quite clear that they came from Yorkshire, England, to this country about 1630, locating at first in New England and some of them soon after on Long Island. The Hempstead settlement on L.I. which began about 1644 and where the (1644) name of George Mills was found on the Town records, was called a Yorkshire settlement. When Long Island was captured by the English from the Dutch they found on the west end a Yorkshire settlement called "Long Island Yorkshire." When Jacob Mills grew up to manhood the British law was in force here and the custom of primogeniture in full operation. In accordance with this custom his older brother fell heir to the landed estate while he was 
