---
citation: "Mills Genealogy. Prepared by Samuel Wickham Mills. Minisink Valley Historical Society, Port Jervis NY, p5. Used with permission."
---
5

taught the trades of tanning and currying and of shoe making, which in those days were combined together, especially on Long Island. When he was about nineteen years of age he entered upon a series of whaling voyagers, going for this purpose in the spring with other young men to Nantucket and from there embarking for Greenland as it was called, the only whaling fishery then known. These voyages usually lasted six or seven months, when he would return home and work at his trade in the winter, 'whipping the cat' as it was called, going from house to house. There were no wages on the vessel, but a certain portion of the catch was allotted to each one according to his position. In this way he accumulated quite a little sum during the three voyages made by him, the last one especially being quite successful. At just what time he came to Orange County is not known, but it was probably between 1768 and 1770, or when from twenty two to twenty four years of age. He bought a tract of land four miles back of New Windsor, built himself a house and started a small tannery, conducting at the same time farming, tanning and currying, and shoe-making. He lived here as a bachelor for two or three years until his marriage to Catherine Denton of Goshen Dec. 27, 1773. He was not in the army during the Revolution as his trade was required to furnish shoes for the soldiers. He belonged to a militia company and when the British were coming up the Hudson River to attack Fort Montgomery, his company was suddenly ordered out to march the next morning to the defense of the Fort. He marched with the company after 
