---
# citation: "08 Jul 1880, Commercial Advertiser, Potsdam Junction NY, p4, nyshistoricnewspapers.org."
pubdate:  "1880-07-08"
author: 
title: 
voltitle:  "Commercial Advertiser"
publocation:  "Potsdam Junction  NY"
pages:  "4"
source:  "nyshistoricnewspapers.org"
media:  ""
quaddress:  ""
---
ANOTHER STEAMBOAT DISASTER. 

Burning of the Steamer Seawanhaka in the east River, New York--Many Passengers Drowned or Burned to Death. 

The following account is given by the New York papers of the burning of the steamer Seawanhaka, which runs from New York to Glen Cove, on Long Island Sound. The number of lives lost cannot accurately be stated, but is about fifty. A few were burned to death, but the most were drowned: 

The Seawanaka had the reputation of being one of the fastest boats running out of New York harbor. At 4:15 o’clock in the afternoon she started from her wharf at Peck slip with her colors flying. The Seawanhaka went up the East river under a fall head of steam, and about 4:45 reached Hallett’s Point. Suddenly a cloud of smoke came up through the grating rear the pilot house, and it was at first thought that it came from the engine-room, and had no special significance. Immediately afterward flames were seen around the pilothouse. Captain Charles P. Smith was in the wheel-house, and seeing the danger turned his vessel toward Ward's Island, intending to beach her there. Somebody cried “The ship’s on fire!” and a panic started. A rush was made for the lockers in which the life preservers were kept. Most of the men retained their presence of mind and helped the officers of the steamer in supplying the women and, children with life-preservers. Captain Smith shouted from the wheel-house to the passengers to keep order, and his assistants tried to restore order and were assisted by many of the passengers. The crew meanwhile got the fire extinguishers and turned the streams on the blazing woodwork, but to little purpose. The fire spread aft along the port side toward where the passengers were standing and drove them forward. On the starboard side there was still a space which the fire had not touched. Along this narrow space the passengers hurried to the forward part of the boat. By this time all hope of saving the vessel had been abandoned, and those on board anxiously watched the spot where Captain Smith intended to ground his vessel, The moment he realized that the fire could not be extinguished, Captain Smith had ordered his boats lowered, and had headed the vessel under a full head of steam toward the shallow water at the northern end of 
Ward's Island. The steamer Granite State was behind the Seawanhaka when she caught fire, and many of the passengers who jumped overboard were picked up by this vessel. The tug Refuge, of the emigration department, General Newton’s steam launch, and a score of rowboats, which surrounded the Seawanhaka. At the upper end of Ward’s Island, where it was intended to strand the vessel, it was discovered that the water was not sufficiently shallow, and the vessel’s head was turned to the sunken meadows which are south of Randall’s Island. There the Seawanbaka was run aground, and the work of saving the passengers begun. Several of the passengers remained on the Seawanhaka until they were driven away by the flames; one man and a child held on to the guard rail until it was burned away, and they then fell into the river. 

Mr. C. A. Dana, the editor of the New York Sun, Doctor Draper, his son-in-law, and Mr. S. L. M. Barlow, jumped into the water together and, being expert swimmers, all reached the Long Island shore in safety. 

**Narratives of Survivors.** 

Mr. Mitchell Cook, of 58 Broadway, was badly scalded about the neck, face and hands. Mr. Cook is a quiet, unassuming, determined-looking man. He said: “We left Peck slip at 4:15. In our party was Mrs. Thorpe, of Glenwood, and S. W. Norris, of this city. The Seawanhaka made good time to Thirty-third street. There she took aboard a number of passengers. Among them was a tall, fine-looking old gentleman, who was being led by his daughter. We left Thirty-third street on time, and everything seemed to be going along quietly, until, all of a sudden, the Seawanhaka gave a series of low groanings, followed by thuds. The passengers noticed these, and everybody seemed to ask the other: ‘ What's that?’ I was at the time sitting in the main cabin. I at once walked out to the bow of the boat, and I then saw Captain Smith standing in the pilot-house. He was blowing alarm signals. I knew they were alarm signals, from my knowledge of steamers. Suspecting at once that there was danger threatened I returned to my friends. As I passed directly amidships I saw smoke issuing through the cracks of the main saloon leading from the engine-room to the pilot-house. I then knew that the boat was afire, and I rushed to the Long Island side of the boat to see what chances there were for saving my friends if the worse came to the worse. I noticed that the captain was steering the Seawanhaka to the Granite City which was coming up, and was lying to. At the same moment, saw a thin, long, white tongue of flame shoot up to the upper decks. I knew then that the Granite City could not assist us. The Granite City evidently guessed as much, for she turned around, and the Seawanhaka was gone. I sprang to the New York side of the boat. This was at the moment the Seawanhaka was just between Randall's Island and Ward’s Island. At that very Moment the flames shot upward, and the boat was afire. A great number of male passengers at this very moment game running up to the bow of the boat. Many of them seemed frantic, and all had life-preservers on. At that time the men passengers who had life-preservers began jumping into the water, and swimming to shore. They kept steering the boat to the bar opposite Randall's Island. There the water is low, and the bar is covered with grass. As the Seawanhaka touched the bar the flames burst all over the boat, and before I knew it I was surrounded by fire. Then it was that I sprang overboard. Just as I did so, an old lady, the mother of the freight clerk, ran up to a gentleman and exclaimed: ‘For God's sake, sir; help me. I am old, and cannot save myself.’ The gentleman pushed her back, saying: ‘This is not a moment to save; it is every one for himself,’ and he leaped overboard. I called out to the old lady: ‘If you will jump overboard I will save you.’ Her dress at that moment was afire. She jumped into the water at the very moment I did, and I caught her. I was swimming to shore with her when one of the officers of the boat came toward me and we landed her safely. After resting a few minutes, being a good swimmer, I took off my clothes and, with two life preservers, I swam back to the boat. When I got there I saw a young lady standing with her father on tho burning steamer. It was the same one we had noticed coming aboard leading him. She was shrieking: ‘Save my father! Save my poor father.’ She had her arm around is neck, but he seemed to cling firmly to a pillar. It was the most heartrending sight I ever witnessed. The old man clung to the post, while his daughter tried all she could to drag him away. At that very moment she seemed to be surrounded by fire, and the old man’s clothing was burning. He seemed paralyzed and unable to move. I and others called to the girl to jump into the water, that we would save both. She did not seem to know what to do, until at last her dress caught fire. She sprang at her father, kissed him, and a moment after she struck the side of the boat, and fell limp in the water. I caught her by the hair and struck out. I got assistance, but as we turned to the boat we saw the poor old man still there. The man who was assisting me threw up his hands and went down. I got the young lady ashore, and she was at once taken to the Randall’s Island hospital. She did not see her father disappear. I swam again to the boat. This time I found a lady throwing up her hands, and caught hold of her, and, with assistance, took her to shore. Dr. Carroll, of Randall’s. Island, swam out and picked up a child. The poor little thing was dead and terribly burned. Among the first I saw die were two little children, who were running in the  main cabin with their clothing ablaze. Some one threw them into the water, and I know they were lost.” 

James N. Hicks, of Sand’s Point, was found suffering from a severe attack of asthma in the Randall’s Island hospital. It had taken three hours to restore him to consciousness, after he was brought from Sunken Meadows. He said: “I was in the after saloon. The first I knew, flames burst from, the fore starboard gangway. I tried to quiet the women, for I supposed the boat would be run ashore, but I think now the captain did not dare put her against the rocks which lined that part of the channel. The wind blew the heat and smoke aft, and we were finally forced to go overboard. I found a rope, one end of which I threw overboard, and climbing down allowed myself to be towed in the water. This was sometime before the vessel was grounded. I saw Mr. Dubois, of Sea Cliff, holding on one of the braces. Near him was Mr. Post, of Great Neck. The boat burned like tinder. The flames completely divided the boat in two parts. I think there must have been four or five hundred on board, and it seems to me that I saw two or three hundred in the water altogether. Some had life-preservers and some had not. The crew and Captain Smith behaved nobly. A deckhand called Dennis and a colored man named Nathan, and Mr. Field and Superintendent Kirk were especially cool. The Granite State, a  Hartford steamboat, hovered around us.”

Charles Abeel, one of the firemen of the boat, was found on the pier at the foot of Peck slip, from which the Seawanhaka started at 4:15 o’clock in the afternoon. He said: “We made our landing at the foot of Thirty-third street at 4:30 o’clock, and it was about fifteen minutes later when we reached Little Hell Gate. I was sitting in the wing or port gangway having started the bilge pump,  I heard a noise, and on looking around saw flames coming out of the fire-room. I got up and tried to make my way into the fire-room, but the flames were too much for me. We were just off Randall’s Island, and running forward I shouted to the captain, who was at the wheel, to head her for the shore, but he shouted back that he could not. I then ran into the cabins forward and urged the steward and passengers to save themselves. They did not suspect the vessel was on fire then, as no smoke or flame was blown in that direction. At that time the wood work of the vessel about her center was burning like tinder, and the flames were spreading toward both ends of the boat. There were probably about three hundred persons on board. Men were jumping from the hurricane deck into the water, and a large number of frightened children and women were huddled near the stern of the boat. I climbed over the rail near the bow, and several men almost jumped upon me before I took to the water to save myself. I found a life-preserver floating near me, and was going to put it on when a man clutched it, and I, knowing I could swim and thinking he could not, let him have it and swam for Ward’s Island, which I reached, and then helped man a boat and assisted in picking up the passengers in the water. The Seawanhaka was finally beached, but soon burnt to the water's edge. Captain Charles P. Smith was at the wheel, and stuck to his post to the last. His face and body were badly burned. Small boats came to the rescue from every direction. The steamboats Granite State, bound 
for Hartford, the Osseo, the Minnehannock and the Sylvan Glen had boats manned and sent to our assistance. Many of the children on board had their clothing catch fire, and some of them were severely burned. A lamp which I carried in my hand into the tank-room, which is back of the fire-room, and separated by a board partition, I brought back into the fire-room and put it down. I am sure the fire could not have originated from the lamp, as the oil would not explode nor burn without a wick. Engineer Weeks put on a full head of steam, I am told, in response to an signal from the captain, and then climbed up among the machinery and was seen standing on the upper deck trying to raise the valve so that the steam could escape and an explosion be averted. We never carried over thirty four pounds of steam. Engineer Weeks’ son was fireman on the boat, and at the time the fire started was watching the steam and water indicators. The only members of the crew I understand are missing is Josiah Hasbrouck, the cook, and his grandson, Charles Hasbrouck, who was employed on the boat. We had crew of about four deckhands, one deck-boy, an engineer, two firemen, the captain, a clerk, a wheelsman, a superintendent, a porter, a stewart and the cook. The crew did their duty and few of them lost their presence of mind. You can imagine how cool they were when the clerk, who was collecting fares, as soon as he realized the boat was on fire, returned to his office and secured all the money he had left there. Among our passengers were Richard O'Gorman and one or two of the Harpers—I mean the publishers. The vessel burned like tinder after once the flames started. Some of the sights were pitiful. Morris, our porter, saw a child lying on its back and was going to jump overboard to save it, when a frantic woman clutched his arm, and saying: “You are a strong man and I a woman without any friends on board. For God's sake help me.” He left the child to its fate, I believe, and saved the woman. The only one of the Seawnanhaka’s boats got out was one which had a canvas fastened over it. After the canvas was got off, the body of a child about two years old was found lying in some water in the bottom of the boat. Nobody seemed to know how it got there. After I got on Randall's Island I was almost exhausted, but the doctors soon revived me by pouring some liquor down my throat A lady was climbing down a ladder leading from the promenade deck to the main deck, but as the ladder is a pretty hard thing for a man to get down on at any time, she fell into the gangway amid the flames. Myself and about half a dozen others rescued her, and I burnt my hand. I saw a butcher who belongs either at Great Neck or Sand’s Point jump overboard with an asparagus box. The last I saw of him he was going under the wheel. Several others who went over forward also went under the paddle-wheels.” 
