---
# citation: "11 Aug 1880, The Brooklyn Union, Brooklyn NY, p2, newspapers.com."
pubdate:  "1880-08-11"
author: 
title: 
voltitle:  "The Brooklyn Union"
publocation:  "Brooklyn  NY"
pages:  "2"
source:  "newspapers.com"
media:  ""
quaddress:  ""
---
THE SEAWANHAKA INDICTMENT

The Grand Jury have made a most important presentment in regard to the disaster on the Seawanhaka. Possibly all of the sweeping charges may not apply to this unfortunate vessel, but they bring within their scope all the multitude of disasters caused by recklessness, ignorance, disregard of law, inefficiency and stupidity characteristics that seem to have come out in full bloom this season, in the average pilot and master. The Grand Jury indict the owners of the steamboat for neglect and refusal to provide the necessary safety appliances, and charge that by this felonious misconduct many lives were lost. Charles P. Smith, the heroic Captain, is indicted for the same offence, and Mr. Weeks, the Engineer, is indicted for carelessness in the management of the machinery and boilers, with neglect in having the tubes and flues in bad condition, and unsafe for use, and for having inadequate provision to prevent sparks and flames from being thrown from the fire-doors of the boiler. Messrs. Jayne and Craft, the United States Inspectors, are charged with felonious misconduct and willful carelessness and negligence in the performance of their duties in the annual inspection and examination required by law of the steamboat, and with neglect in not having all the requirements of the law in regard to the life-saving apparatus complied with. John K. Matthews and Alexander Cauldwell, United States Inspectors of Boilers and Machinery, are indicted for neglect in their annual inspection and examination, in not discovering the bad condition of the boilers, tubes and flues. Very thorough work is done both in the presentment and indictment, and a warning is given to Government officers, and to steamboat owners and officer such as they may profit by. All of the parties who have been indicted profess to be astonished at the faction of the Grand Jury, express no apprehension of the result, and cannot for the life of them understand why they are made conspicuous in this abrupt manner. Mr. Barlow says the Seawanhaka was the finest boat on the Sound, that the owners did not run her for profit, and did not care whether she paid a dividend or not. She was run to accommodate the owners and their families and friends. At the meeting of the Directors in the spring, he told the manager to be sure that before the Seawanhaka began running she was in perfect trim. He told him to buy the best of everything; not to be afraid to spend money, and to have her thoroughly examined by the United States Inspectors. The manager subsequently told him all that had been done. Government-Inspector Jayne has never been on board the Seawanhaka since he held the office. He accepted the report of his deputies, and signed the certificate. Mr. Craft, who is a practical shipbuilder, says he personally examined the Seawanhaka, and knows she was in excellent shape. The Boiler Inspector says the same thing. It remains for juries to hear and weigh the testimony that will be given on the trials, and determine the responsibility of the parties implicated. There is hardly a steamboat in these waters on which the life-saving appliances are not out of order. This is notably true of the excursion boats. Life preservers are imperfect, and are not in numbers required by law, while the passengers are very often in excess of the limit. It is charged that boats and life-preservers are borrowed from ship chandlers and passed around from one steamboat to another, so that an inspector is apt to find things in good order. 

The Presentment of the Grand Jury is a most formidable document, and calls for a thorough revision of the laws, and the establishment of a system in which competent and responsible men shall act officially and be held to a strict accountability to punitive statutes. The Grand Jury declares that the examinations and inspections “are not conducted in a careful and intelligent manner;” that “engineers holding the certificates of the Inspector are incompetent for their several positions, and that the evidence of such Inspector himself shows that he was negligent and careless in granting such certificates;” that the laws regarding hull, boiler, and equipment inspection “are not observed to any degree of accuracy or honest fulfilment,” that vessels absolutely unfit for service are licensed, and that vessels built for still-water service “carry thousands of excursionists many miles out to sea.” The Jury give illustrations of the incomplete manner in which boilers are tested, and declare that under the present system there is mo assurance of security. The Jury say it has been shown to them that an association in England, of many years’ existence, annually insuring 2,500 to 3,000 boilers, has a system of inspection so thorough and exhaustive that there has never been an explosion of any boiler under its charge. They demand that our Government have such a system. They say that after a passenger has bought a ticket on boats run merely for profit, and without regard to law, “he is consigned to the care and protection of incompetent and thoughtless officers, and a cowardly and worse than incompetent crew, who have been employed because they are unfit for other work, and without regard to their character or qualifications.” The Jury denounce the habit of overcrowding boats, and call for a law to punish the pilots, who are actuated by “a dangerous spirit of jealousy,” and whose rivalry and recklessness lead them into the “special amusement of capturing each other’s right of way.” The presentment concludes with a number of recommendations of a practical character, which are calculated to insure the efficiency and competency of crew and the greater safety and comfort of passengers. There is a very profound feeling of alarm and dread in the community, and a very general desire to have a good wholesome example made of some of these maritime daredevils or imbeciles. 


